Sam Hillman 
5 Wyeverne Road	
Cardiff	
CF24 4BG

+44 (0)7411 422 986
https://uk.linkedin.com/in/samghillman 
hillmansg@cardiff.ac.uk 
 
Profile
Undergraduate Ecologist with an interest in disease transmission and animal behaviour and especially the intersection between the two. Experience of both laboratory and field work, with laboratory experience including both post-mortem and archiving work. Three years’ previous experience of leading and managing teams of up to 15 people, including abroad. Confident presenting to both technical and less-technical audiences, with experience of running citizen science projects. Member of the British Ecological Society and The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour.

Relevant Experience
July 2016			British Ecology Society (BES) Summer School
One of only 50 undergraduates competitively selected from the UK (and the only undergraduate from Wales) for the BES Summer School. Working in teams to investigate a variety of topics, including animal behaviour, marine ecology, botany and entomology.

September 2015 – Present	Research Assistant, Bag And Remove in Cymru (BARC)
BARC is a Cardiff University citizen science project analysing parasite distribution in UK soil samples. I used microscopy and ID skills to assess Toxacara species prevalence.

September 2015 – Present 	Post-Mortem and Archival Assistant, The Otter Project
The Otter Project is a Cardiff University, Environment Agency-funded long-term environmental surveillance scheme using deceased otters to study population biology and disease in UK otter populations. I worked with researchers, making observations and dissecting organ samples which were used for further research, storing new samples in long-term storage and retrieving up to ten-year old samples used for specific PhD research projects.

February 2016 – April 2016 	Research Assistant, Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) 
Lichen ecologist surveying lichen distribution as an indicator of air quality near Aberthaw power station, using the OPAL (Open Air Laboratories) and APIS (Air Pollution Information Systems) standard methodologies.

May 2016 – Present 		CENNAD Lichen Apprentice Scheme, Plantlife Wales
Awarded two-year CENNAD Lichen Apprenticeship. Working with lichenologists to learn the full range of skills needed to carry out site surveys, including detailed microscopy work, ID skills and chemical reaction tests, to identify the full range of taxa occurring in Wales (over 1500), and advise on management of lichen species and assemblages.

May 2016 – Present 		President, Cardiff University Wildlife Conservation Society
Elected President of Cardiff University’s Wildlife Conservation Society. Forging links with RSPB Wales to set up community conservation schemes, working with local conservation groups to organise field work, setting up ecology training schemes with local ecologists and working with undergraduate and postgraduate students to try to encourage a love of all things natural.

June 2016 – Present		Give Nature a Home, RSPB Cymru 
Working on citizen science and community engagement projects (including In the Eyes of the Animal virtual reality experience) and land management activities throughout Cardiff.
February 2015 – Present 	Buglife – Urban Buzz Project Volunteer
Working on creating pollinator habitats in Cardiff. Includes basic selecting and surveying of potential sites and training on how to provide key needs of pollinators, as well as planting new sites.

May 2015 – Present 		Field Conservation Work 
Working on tree planting, meadow management, weed control and other land management activities at Nant Fawr Woodlands, Howardian Nature Reserve and various sites in Birmingham.

Work Experience
June 2016 – Present 		Clinical Studies Administrator, Wales Cancer Trials Unit
Responsible for gathering and analysing confidential patient clinical data and establishing trends and patterns with data managers and statisticians.

January 2016 – July 2016	Researcher and Data Administrator, Chartered Institute of PR, Wales
Consultant for the Chartered Institute of Public Relations Wales, working on data and database administration under strict NDA (non-disclosure agreement) conditions.

March 2013 – September 2015 	Microsoft Account Manager, CV Bay
Recruiting for highly technical and niche roles. Line-managed and trained two other people.

December 2010 – February 2013 Sales Manager, Duco Global
Responsible for managing up to 15 staff as well as full sales training for any new employees

Education
2015 – 2019			BSc. (Hons) Ecology with a Year in Industry, Cardiff University
•	First Year modules included Genetics and Evolution, Biological Chemistry, Organisms & Environment (including basic parasitology), and statistics.
•	Second Year Modules include Animal Behaviour, Animal Diversity (including parasitology), Molecular Ecology and Evolution, Population Ecology and advanced statistics.

2008 – 2010			A Levels, King Edward VI Camp Hill School for Boys, Birmingham
Biology (A), Chemistry (B), Physics (B), General Studies (A*), History AS (B), Critical Thinking AS (B)

Skills
ID Skills: Excellent Lichen and Tree ID knowledge, good Plants, Birds and Mammals
IT and Data: IT literate. Worked with R, Python, HTML, CSS, Excel, basic Ruby, Latex and SQL. 
Laboratory Work: Mammalian post-mortem and archival experience. Experienced in microscope use and laboratory skills, including aseptic techniques. 
Field Work: Extensive work on land management and tree planting. Worked on OPAL citizen science surveys and lichen surveys.
Team Work: Previously managed 15 sales staff, directly trained many staff previously. Extensive experience working with highly diverse teams in both field and office settings.
Communication: 4 years’ experience communicating with internal and external stakeholders before university. Experience of writing for the web in previous roles.

Training Courses and Awards
•	August 2016 – Introduction to Python for Data Science (97%) – Microsoft / EdX
•	August 2016 – Introduction to R – DataCamp 
•	July 2016 – John Muir Award (awarded for 30 hours of conservation work)
•	July 2016 – Good Clinical Practice (Primary Care) Certification
•	April 2016 – Great Crested Newt Survey Training.
•	May 2016 – Conducting Environmental Surveys using Open Air Laboratories (OPAL)
